"March 6, 2024"       "Floor 56: Pani"
We'll lure the Field Boss
into the village.
W-Wait a second.
If we do something like
that, the villagers...
That's the goal.
While the boss is killing NPCs,
we're going to attack it,
and then destroy it.
NPCs aren't just 3-D objects
like trees or rocks.
They're...
Alive? Is that it?
They're only objects.
Even if they're killed,
they'll just respawn.
I can't go along with
that kind of plan.
It's been decided that this
operation will be run by myself,
Asuna, vice commander of the
Knights of the Blood Oath.
You will obey my orders.
Hey.
You two got into it again, huh?
Agil?
You and the second-in-command...
why are you always like that?
We just don't have
good chemistry.
You can become powerful.
So if someone you trust ever
invites you to join a guild,
don't turn them down.
That's what I said,
but who knew that she'd turn into
a floor-clearing demon in the top guild?
The cowardly past that I'd acknowledged
Still not understanding why,
I stand behind myself, scared
Projecting reality onto today
I've drawn so many skies
This must be my fleeting heart
Out of control
In my dreams, this body soars so high
And it can brush away any fears that cling to me
Asleep inside me, these budding
feelings start to expand
I realize this, weak as I am...
As long as I had you
I could stay strong in this dark world
My heart will dream a long dream forever
I want to always be with you
I'll give you everything I have...
"Murder in the Safe Zone"
"April 11, 2024"       "Floor 59: Danac"
What are you doing?
Oh. It's only you.
Everyone else in the Assault Team is
going all out to clear the dungeon, so...
What are you doing
taking a nap out here?
Even solo players need to
take this more seriously--
Not only is this Aincrad's
nicest season,
but today's weather is
at its optimum setting.
Diving into a dungeon on a
day like this is a waste.
Do you even understand
what's going on?
Every day we waste here is one
more we've lost in the real world.
But right now, the place where
we're alive is here in Aincrad.
See?
The wind and sunlight feel so good.
Do they?
Isn't the weather always the same?
If you were to lie down
like me, you'd understand.
Hey, take a look at that.
Taking a nap at this time of day?
Some people don't have
a care in the world.
Who are they? Jeez...
I didn't think she'd really fall asleep.
Wh... What...
Morning.
Sleep well?
One meal...
A meal!
I'll treat you one time
to anything you want.
Then we'll be even! Deal?
"Floor 57: Martin"
Isn't that Asuna from the
Knights of the Blood Oath?
She's the Lightning Flash...
Who's the guy dressed in black?
Well, anyway...
Thanks for today.
For watching over me.
Ah, no problem...
The towns are safe areas,
so no one can attack
or player kill you.
The only exception is
when you're asleep.
Yeah.
Sleep PKs, which abuse
the duel system.
Normally, duels are held
only as tests of strength.
But during a duel,
HP can go down, even in a safe zone,
and you can sustain damage.
So you can challenge
a sleeping person,
manipulating that person's finger
to click the OK button.
Then you just keep
attacking one-sidedly.
Such incidents have
occurred before.
So, well...
Thank you.
W-Well...
Y-You're welcome.
Hurry and pull it out!
You stay down here
and catch him.
Got it.
Hang on!
Damn it...
To die inside a safe zone...
there's no other way except
to be defeated in a duel.
That means...
Everyone!
Look for the "duel winner" icon!
There's no one inside.
What's the deal here?
The obvious conclusion
is that the challenger impaled
the victim with that spear,
put a noose around his neck,
and pushed him out this window.
Wouldn't you agree?
But there was no sign
of the winner icon.
That's impossible.
The only way to inflict damage on
someone in a safe area is via a duel.
Either way, we can't ignore this.
Yeah.
If someone's found a way to
PK within safe areas,
that would make it dangerous not only
outside towns, but inside as well.
You're right.
It'll mean leaving the front lines,
but I guess there's no choice?
In that case, you're going to cooperate
with me until we've resolved this.
Just so we're completely clear,
there won't be any time for napping.
You're the one who was napping.
Excuse me.
If any of you saw what just
happened from the start,
we'd like you to please speak up!
By the time I got here...
Sorry, I know you've just had
a frightening experience.
What's your name?
Um... my name is Yolko...
By any chance, were you the one
who let out that first scream?
Y-Yes.
I just came here to have dinner
with the man who was killed.
His name is Kains.
We used to be in the same guild.
But we got separated in the plaza.
I looked around,
and I saw him hanging from
the church window...
Did you see anyone
else at that time?
It was just for a second,
but I thought I saw someone
standing behind Kains.
Did that person look familiar?
No...
Um... I hate to ask this...
But does anything
come to mind?
The reason why someone
would've wanted to kill Kains?
Sorry to make you walk
with me all this way.
Don't worry about it.
Anyway, we'd like you to talk
to us again tomorrow, okay?
Okay...
So, now what?
Let's review what we
know right now.
If we learn where that
spear came from,
it might lead us
to the perpetrator.
Then we'll need someone
with the appraisal skill.
You don't... have it, obviously.
Of course not.
Nor do you.
Also... must you address me so curtly?
U-Um...
Well, maybe...
"Miss" then?
Or "Lady Vice Commander"?
"Lady Lightning Flash"?
You can just call me Asuna.
S-Sure thing.
Anyway, about that appraisal skill...
do any of your friends have it?
I do have a friend who's a weapons
merchant with that skill...
But this is their busiest time,
so I don't think I
can ask soon...
I see.
Then why don't we ask an
item merchant that I know?
"Floor 50: Algade"
Thank you! Come again, brother!
I can see you're running as
ruthless a business as ever.
Hey, that you, Kirito?
Buy cheap and sell cheap.
That's my motto.
I don't know about
that second part.
Don't go slandering
my good name.
Wh-What's happened, Kirito?
You're a solo player, so what're you
doing here with Asuna of all people?
I thought you two
didn't get along?
Spill it!
Someone's HP dropped to
zero within a safe area?
And it wasn't a duel?
No one saw a winner icon.
If he was walking with
Yolko right before,
then it's not a sleep PK either.
The method is too complex
for some random duel.
We can be certain that
it was a premeditated PK.
Which brings us to this.
It's a player-made weapon.
Really?
Who is it? The one who made it?
Grimlock.
Never heard of him...
Not any top-ranked bladesmith,
I can tell you that.
And there's nothing particularly
unusual about the weapon.
But it should still be a clue.
Tell us its item name, too.
Let's see...
Guilty Thorn is its listed name.
In other words, "thorn of sin."
Thorn of sin...
Okay...
Wait!
Why?
What do you mean, why?
Are you stupid?
That weapon's already
killed someone!
But we can't be sure
unless we try.
Stop doing reckless
things like that!
As for this... Agil, please
hold on to it for us.
Huh? Sure...
"The Next Day"
Tell us, Yolko,
have you ever heard
the name "Grimlock"?
Yes.
He was a member of the guild that
Kains and I once belonged to.
When we had that black spear
stuck in Kains's chest appraised,
we found out that it was
made by this Grimlock.
Can you think of any reason why?
Yes, I can.
I'm sorry I wasn't able
to tell you yesterday.
I wanted to forget...
It's something I don't really
want to remember.
But I'm going to tell you.
That was what destroyed our guild...
Our guild's name was Golden Apple.
Six months ago,
a rare monster that
we happened to defeat
dropped a powerful ring
that raised agility by 20.
We were divided on whether
to use it for the guild,
or sell it and split the earnings.
But in the end,
we put it to a vote.
The vote went 5-3
in favor of selling it.
Our leader, Griselda,
was going to stay overnight
at a large town on the front lines
to give it to a broker.
But... she never came back.
Later, we learned that
Griselda had died.
To this day, I still don't
know how she died.
No one would leave a safe zone
with that kind of rare item on them.
Meaning that it was a sleep PK?
Six months ago would have been just
before the method really spread.
But it's hard to think
it's a coincidence.
Whoever attacked her must have been
a player who knew about the ring.
In other words...
One of the other seven
members of Golden Apple...
The most obvious suspects would be
those who opposed selling it.
You mean they
attacked Griselda
to get the ring
before it was sold?
Probably.
Who's Grimlock?
He was Griselda's husband.
Just within the game of course.
Griselda was a powerful
swordswoman.
Beautiful... And smart....
Grimlock was a kind man
who was always smiling.
They made a great couple,
and they got along well.
If Grimlock was the one responsible
for yesterday's murder,
he must be after the three who
voted against selling the ring.
Two of the three who were opposed to
selling the ring were myself and Kains.
Then who's the other?
A tank named Schmitt.
I've heard he's on the front lines now
with the Holy Dragon Alliance.
Schmitt?
I've heard that name...
He leads the Holy Dragon
Alliance's defense forces.
He's a large-lance user.
Oh, him.
You know Schmitt?
Well, I've only run into him
a few times while clearing bosses.
Could you possibly
let me see Schmitt?
He probably hasn't heard
about what occurred.
And if that's the case, what happened
to Kains could happen to him too...
Let's summon Schmitt.
I know someone at the
Holy Dragon Alliance.
If we go to their HQ,
I think we'll find a way.
First, we should walk
Yolko back to her inn.
Yolko, don't leave
the inn until we return.
All right.
How do you think this safe-zone
murder was carried out?
I see three possibilities...
The first is a fair duel.
The second is through a system exploit
that combines known methods.
Yes, something like that.
And the third?
Some unknown skill, which bypasses
the protection of the safe areas.
Or possibly an item.
No, the third is impossible.
Why?
Because it's unfair.
I kind of hate to admit it,
but SAO's rules are essentially fair.
There's no way that this game
would allow murders in safe areas.
Is it true that Kains was killed
with Grimlock's weapon?
It is.
Why would Kains be killed
after all this time?
He...
Did he steal the ring?
Was he the one
who killed Griselda?
Does Grimlock plan
to kill the three of us
who opposed selling the ring?
Is he after you and me too?
It could be another member, for
whom Grimlock made the spear.
Or perhaps it may be
Griselda's revenge...
Because no one could kill
someone inside a safe zone
unless they were a ghost.
I stayed awake all
last night thinking...
In the end, you could say it was all of us
guild members who killed Griselda!
When that ring dropped,
we shouldn't have ever voted...
We should've just done what
Griselda told us to do!
Grimlock was the only one who said
we should just leave it to Griselda.
So he has the right
to take revenge
for Griselda on the rest of us.
You're kidding me.
You're kidding me...
After all this time,
six whole months...
Why now?
You're okay with this, Yolko?
You're okay with being killed
in such an insane way?
Yolko!
The tolling of the faraway bells
sounded a little lonely to me
So I tried harder, one more time,
this time soaring higher, all the way up
Neither this reality that just keeps repeating itself
Nor all my wishes, as numerous as the stars
Now that I've found the tomorrow
I should strive for
None of them can overcome these feelings of mine
A world without end, opening up before my eyes
Even if it's no more than a dream
Even if I'm still lost, deep in my heart, it is strong
Echoing forever and ever
Shining softly, ever so softly
Next Time: "Illusionary Avenger."